#### Write a description of each of the trends you see, i.e., for each figure. Do you think each trend actually represents progress? If not, why do you think so? Finally, with Dan and A. Sen in mind, what do you think could be barriers to progress in each topic? (another way to think about this is: why do you think progress hasn't occurred even more rapidly?)


#### Reducing Poverty
I picked the topic Reducing Poverty. The first graph showed the share of the population living in extreme poverty classified by regions. For most of the world’s regions(South Asia, Latin America and the Caribbean, East Asia and Pacific, Europe and Central Asia and Middle East and North Africa) this share went down to nearly 0%.. There wasn’t much change however in Sub-saharan Africa where the population only went down from 55% to 40% from 1987 to 2013. In the graph, countries progress in reducing GHI scores, a lot of countries over the world in Africa, Asia and Latin America have a low decrease in GHI scores. The next graph, share of the world population living in extreme poverty, 1820-2015 shows the percentage drastically dropping from over 90% to just about 10% in 2015. Following that was the end of poverty graph, which showed the population in billions of people living on $1.25 or less a day. This number reduced from approximately 2 billion to less than 0.5 billion people from 1990 to 2020 and was projected to go further down to a little over 0 by 2030. The income spent on food graph showed the percent of per capita disposable income spent on food in the United States, 1960-2012. This percentage for total food(sum of food at home and food away from home) reduced from 18% to 10%. Honestly, I can’t tell if that’s a good or bad thing. Next was the death toll from great familnes graph, which showed the number in millions of people who died from great famine. The number which was about 27 in 1900 went down to 4 in 1910, then went up again to 18 in 1940 and finally came down to basically 0 in 2010. The next graph, declining global poverty, basically combined the graphs of the share of the world population living in poverty, the share of the world population living in extreme poverty and the percentage of the world population living with less than $1.25 per day. Next graph, the proportion of undernourished people in the developing world, showed that the percentage of such people reduced from 34% in 1970 to 20% in 2010. Not much of an improvement. Next was the global food supply per capita graph, which showed an increase in global kcal/day/person from less than 2250 in 1961 to a little under 2850 in 2011. Last came farm jobs, % of total US jobs, which showed the percent of jobs in the US  that were farm jobs. There was a huge decrease from 90% in 1790 to less than 5% in 2000. 

I think each trend represents progress in one way or another. In some instances, there was a big change, in others not so much, but there was still progress. And of course, some countries had better progress than others, but those with little development, still had some form of progress. I believe the reason progress hasn't happened more rapidly could be corruption, especially in African countries, bureaucracy, which slows down implementation of laws to improve general well-being, lack of economic freedoms.


