

### What was the toaster project? What did Thomas Thwaites attempt to do? Was he successful and what is the significance of this example in the context of complexity and development?
The toaster project was an endeavour by Thomas Thwaites, a British design student.  Thomas Thwaites attempted to create a toaster from scratch by getting the raw materials and making them into parts, which he would then combine to make the toaster. He was partially successful as the toaster worked for five seconds and then blew up. The significance is that just as the creation of a very simple toaster needed several parts, development is also not just determined by increase in output of a firm, but the combination of political, social, economic, legal institutions.

### According to Barder, how successful have economic models been at describing and predicting growth over the past 50 years?  How did he use the Harrod-Domar model, the Solow model, the Washington consensus and the Ajaokuta Steel works to illustrate his point (reference at least two of the above).
Economic models, according to Barber, have not been very successful at predicting growth as they determine development only in terms of individuals and firms output. The Harrod-Domar model claims that since firms’ output increases when capital and labor are increased, then to increase the output of the economy, more capital and labor is needed. This however, bears no resemblance to reality as in the case of South Korea and Ghana, capital and labor were not factors. The Solow model claimed that technology change was the magic ingredient which when combined with capital and labor, increases firms’ output. Barder however counters that  technology and knowledge spread easily enough and can’t necessarily be the reason some countries are rich and others poor. 

### Who was Steve Jones? What did he do at uni-lever? Was he successful?  Specifically what did he do in order to make an evolutionary jump forward?  How significant were his results?
Steve Jones worked in a soap making factory. He was hired to design a better nozzle, and was successful in doing so. He did this by making ten copies of the existing nozzle and randomly distorting the model into several patterns. He tested them, took the one that worked best and made copies of it and again randomly distorted them. He repeated the same pattern for 45 generations of nozzles until he finally got the best model. His results were significant because they were hundreds of times better than the original nozzle and brought about an evolutionary jump to new solutions. 

### Who was Haile Sellasie?  What is the significance of Kapuscinski’s book, The Emperor?  According to Barder, how did Ethiopia exemplify the suppression of emergent systemic change?  How do you think Sen would have described this suppression? Do you agree?
Haile Sellasie was an emperor of Ethiopia. He was the last emperor of the feudal dynasty in Ethiopia which was overthrown in 1974. The book is significant because it demonstrates what currently happens in some states which have abundant natural resources yet are poor because the elite control these revenues. Ethiopia exemplified the suppression of emergent systemic change as they lived under a dictatorial government, with a powerful elite few benefited from the poverty of the majority. Sen would have described this suppression as unfreedom which is in turn undevelopment.
