#### What are your thoughts, or more saliently, what questions do you have or what would you want to know/learn more about? What responsibilities do you think the international community should have (if any) on such matters? 

I believe China’s loans have negative and positive effects. On one hand, they are helping nations in need by giving out enormous funds that improve development. In Nigeria, it is a very common sight to see Chinese companies and individuals constructing roads. This is one example of China’s spending in Africa. And of course, better roads in turn have a positive impact on the economy, by increasing business activities and the like. On the other hand, they are forcing these countries into a corner by giving very high interest rates to countries in which most of their citizens are living in poverty. The countries then find themselves in an even worse situation than before they took the loan. And being in debt doesn’t just affect the country financially, but they also lose their sovereignty as the debtors(China) then dictate what and how to spend their money and resources. 

I would like to learn what countries received the most money(hopefully, Nigeria isn’t that), what kinds of sectors they spend more loans on, whether health, construction, etc.  Lastly, I believe the international communities like the United Nations, World Bank, etc should regulate the kinds of loans China and other developed countries give, the interest rates, and they should advocate for China’s dealings to be made more public. I’m not sure if that is even possible or legal, but if it is then it should be done.  
