### Annotated Bibliography: Malaria Analysis in Nigeria
Word count: 1707

### Article 1
#### Maina, J., Ouma, P.O., Macharia, P.M. et al. A spatial database of health facilities managed by the public health sector in sub Saharan Africa. Sci Data

The dimension of human development being addressed by the authors’ research is health, and the sustainable development goal that can be considered in the article is “Good Health and Well-being”. The authors recognized that maximizing the worth of spatial health access requires an entire census of providers and their locations. They set out to provide this information by assembling master facility lists of government and non-government sources in the 50 countries and islands in sub-Saharan Africa(SSA) and used geocoding methods to provide a comprehensive spatial inventory of 98,745 public health facilities.

As the article states, “Defining things of health services regarding the communities they're intended to serve is the cornerstone of health system planning, ensuring the right services are accessible to the population in which nobody is geographically marginalized from essential services”. The Global health agenda aims to make sure that each one people obtain the health services they have. This goal of planning for universal equity in access to health services demands better data on the location of both services and populations they are intended to serve.

The authors approached this through four major data science methods: 1. Data sources: The authors compiled comprehensive health facility data. The Ministries of Health of all 50 countries were first consulted. When the MoH did not have sufficient data, other government agencies’ websites were consulted. For countries with none of these, direct contacts with people working in WHO, etc, were attempted. Half of the countries’ data were obtained from MoH, 4 from other government bodies, 9 from UNOCHA HDX, 7 from NGO and FBO websites, and the rest from personal communication. These were the geospatial datasets used by the authors. 2. Data abstraction: Private-for-profit facilities were excluded from this data collection and only public and private-not-for-profit facilities were included. Also, across all countries, government facilities serving special groups, for example, prisons, armed services, police, schools, etc, were excluded. This is because the services they provide are often not available to the general population. 3. Data cleaning: Duplicates were removed from the data set, and facilities without names were given names of the community they were in or closest to. 4. Geocoding: Most of the Facilities had GPS coordinates from their original data sources, while 10,759 coordinates were obtained from digitizing health facility maps. The remaining 40,181 health facilities with missing coordinates were obtained employing a sort of existing location data and digital resources for geocoding.

Using ArcGIS, Google Earth, and the Global Lakes and Wetlands Database, the authors ensured that all facilities were within defined land areas and they identified facilities that fell outside the international boundaries, which they corrected by assigning new coordinates.

### Article 2
#### Ojo AA, Maxwell K, Oresanya O, Adaji J, Hamade P, Tibenderana JK, Abubakar SS, Audu BM, Njidda A, Gubio AB, Snow RW, Zurovac D. Health systems readiness and quality of inpatient malaria case-management in Kano State, Nigeria. Malar J. 2020 Oct 30;19(1):384. doi: 10.1186/s12936-020-03449-5. PMID: 33126886; PMCID: PMC7602350.

The dimension of natural development being addressed by the authors’ probe is health, and the sustainable development pretension that can be considered in relation to the theme is “Good Health and Well- being”. Seven years after Nigeria took on and executed a change of treatment policy for severe malaria from quinine to artesunate, health systems readiness and quality of inpatient malaria case- stewardship practices were evaluated in Kano State of Nigeria.

The data methods used by the authors included: cross-sectional scrutiny was shouldered in May 2019 at all public hospitals. Data collection, which comprised hospital assessments, interviews with inpatient health workers, and data retrieval from medical files for all suspected malaria cases admitted to the pediatric and medical wards in April 2019. This was finished with a complete number of twenty-two hospitals, 154 health workers, and 1807 suspected malaria admissions analyzed from malaria test and treat case- presidency perspective.

The results were as follows: 73 percent of hospitals rendered malaria microscopy, 27 percent had rapid individual tests and 23 percent were unfitted to perform any parasitological malaria judgment. Artemisinin- based combination rectifier ( ACT) was available at 96 percent of hospitals, artemether vials at 68 percent while injectable quinine and artesunate were equally available at 59 percent of hospitals. 47 percent of suspected malaria cases were tested while repetition testing was rare (7%). 60 percent of verified severe malaria cases were prescribed artesunate. Only 4 percent of admitted non-severe test positive cases were treated with ACT, while 76 percent of test-negative cases were defined as anti-malarial. Artemether was the foremost common antimalarial treatment for non-critical test positive (55%), test negative (43%), and cases not tested for malaria (45%). In all ranks of the cases, apart from affirmed severe cases, artemether was more usually prescribed for grown-ups compared to children. 44 percent of artesunate-treated cases were prescribed ACT follow-up treatment. 

The authors’ conclusion was that establishment of the effective budget chain and on-going confirmational interventions for health workers accompanied with regular monitoring of the systems readiness and clinical practices were urgently required.


### Article 3
#### Nakakana UN, Mohammed IA, Onankpa BO, Jega RM, Jiya NM. A validation of the Malaria Atlas Project maps and development of a new map of malaria transmission in Sokoto, Nigeria: a cross-sectional study using geographic information systems. Malar J. 2020 Apr 8;19(1):149. doi: 10.1186/s12936-020-03214-8. PMID: 32268904; PMCID: PMC7140379.

The dimension of natural development being addressed by the authors’ probe is health, and the sustainable development pretension that can be considered in relation to the theme is “Good Health and Well- being”. Due to the inadequate information on malaria available in some of the most-affected parts of sub-Saharan Africa, the Malaria Atlas Project (MAP) was created in 2006, to estimate malaria intensity where data isn't available. The authors realized that the usefulness of these maps, nonetheless, diminishes with the unavailability of data. This required validation of the maps locally. This study was conducted to match truth estimates in Sokoto, Nigeria, with the MAP projections for north-western Nigeria.

Data science methods: A malariometric study was directed on children between ages 2-10 years in towns in the Wamakko Government Area (LGA) of Sokoto State, Nigeria.  The children had their blood examined for the presence of malaria parasitemia and a physical checkup for the symptoms of clinical malaria. All the sites from which children were included in the study were geo-located using a hand-held Global Positioning System (GPS) gadget and these were compared to MAP maps of the same area. A mapping program was used to create a malaria prevalence map of the study area, examining the flight distances of the vector.

The pervasiveness among children 2 to 10 years old was found to be 34.8% which was within the 30-40% forecasted prevalence for the study area by MAP. However, it was found to be much less than the prediction during the dry season (20.2%) and higher than the projected estimate during the wet season (49.3%). The study also generated a map of malaria transmission, which charted out areas where the prevalence was confirmed or likely to be within the range of 30-40%, based on the places which formed the study area for this study.

The study concludes that the prevalence of malaria and its transmission intensity in Sokoto is comparable to Malaria Atlas Project predictions for the region which, for malaria control planning purposes, the projections could even be utilized for the validation of the MAPs in other locations and terrains. Also, the vector behavior could also be utilized to map the transmission of malaria and other vector-transmitted diseases, where this information is lacking.


### Article 4
#### Uzochukwu BSC, Ossai EN, Okeke CC, Ndu AC, Onwujekwe OE. Malaria Knowledge and Treatment Practices in Enugu State, Nigeria: A Qualitative Study. Int J Health Policy Manag. 2018 Sep 1;7(9):859-866. doi: 10.15171/ijhpm.2018.41. PMID: 30316234; PMCID: PMC6186483.

The dimension of natural development being addressed by the authors’ probe is health, and the sustainable development pretension that can be considered in relation to the theme is “Good Health and Well- being”. As malaria accounts for more than 50 percent of outpatient visits in Nigeria, the authors did this study to evaluate the people's awareness of malaria and its treatments practices. This study took place in Enugu state, Nigeria.  
The data science methods used include: Data was collected through the use of “focus group discussions” (FGDs), from three people each from six villages in urban and rural areas of Enugu state, Nigeria. A sum total of 18 FGDs comprising189 participants were surveyed and data on place of treatment for malaria and drug of choice for malaria treatment were collected.
Most of the people had an adequate  knowledge of the signs and symptoms of malaria. They usually put off getting treatment, either due to monetary capabilities or considered severeness of the sickness. It was also found that people were more inclined to going to pharmacies for treatments, mostly because they could get whatever drug they wanted, drugs were cheaper and there was less waiting time. In those cases, treatment was administered without diagnosis. Cost was a significant factor in deciding the medication for malaria treatment. This was why people were unaware of the use of artemisinin based combination therapy because pharmacies did not encourage their use.Public hospitals were deemed as good sources of treatment but they were a last resort when treatment from these drug outlets failed.
The authors concluded that since the community members preferred pharmacies and herbal drugs for malaria treatment, it was necessary that these pharmacies which do not encourage the use of artemisinin combination therapy (ACT) are trained on management of malaria. Also, sensitizing the public on the need of getting a malaria diagnosis before treatment and use of artemisinin-based combination therapy will improve the control of malaria. The populace should be enlightened to seek treatment early and also discouraged from self-medication and use of herbal drugs for treatment. Service delivery should be improved at public hospitals so people would be encouraged to go there for treatment. 

