Certain parts of the world have reached different levels in their fulfillment of this description of human development. Some places are richer in terms of the development of the people while others have taken “by the people” to a higher level. 

Data science has a very important role to play in human development. According to Blumenstock, “The Earth-imaging company Planet in San Francisco, California, for example, makes its high-resolution satellite pictures freely available after natural disasters so that researchers and aid organizations can coordinate relief efforts. Meanwhile, organizations such as the World Bank and the United Nations are recruiting teams of data scientists to apply their skills in statistics and machine learning to challenges in international development”.  Data algorithms are used to supply aid in a more timely and informed manner, improve public-health interventions during an epidemic, and assist national and international responses to crises. Of course, these algorithms have their pitfalls but with a few tweaks to address those concerns, data science could transform human development.

Data science allows people to let go of preconceived ideas, as Hans Rosling demonstrates by using high spatial and temporal resolutions which inform us that even within so-called third world countries, like Africa, there are still countries with very high standards of living. As Hans Rosling also states, if data is made more readily available to the public, governments will be able to pursue global development more easily. 

Barder likens development to several complex things. Like organisms that evolve, development does the same through the adaptation and evolution of its components. The same thing can be portrayed through Steve Jones' evolution of the nozzle by continuously distorting the shape until he got the perfect nozzle. And like the evolution of the eye in biology, this nozzle evolution didn't just bring about small changes, but an evolutionary jump in production and development. Economics has its portrayal of evolution, as firms and industries also adapt. Nokia was a producer of tires and rubber, but it got into the telecommunications business and became very successful. This was an example of firms adapting to new opportunities which Barder gave in his speech. However, recently, Nokia has failed to make the transition from phones to smartphones and has now been overtaken by Samsung. Old firms are replaced by new firms that are better adapted to today’s environment. So in the world, there is a lot of adapting going on. People, products, firms and industries, institutions, all evolve. There is a constant change going on in the way all these people and industries, products, etc, behave. “So you can see that there is this constant process of adaptation changes in physical technologies, people’s behavior, business plans and firms, social institutions, the environment in which we live – all changing in response to each other,” Barder states that the natural state of affairs is complex nonlinear systems. And yet, economics has always tried to portray development in terms of linear and equilibrium. Barder talks about governments where mechanisms of adaptation and evolution are stifled, and those countries don’t get the emergence of systemic change and self-organizing complexity which is what we call development.

I believe that the combination of computer science algorithms and statistics is sufficient to solve the world’s problems. However, I think the pitfalls and solutions Blumenstock mentioned in his article should be taken into consideration. New sources of data should be used as complements and not as replacements to the old ones. Algorithms should be specific to a particular place or situation and not used in general terms. Lastly, there should be a collaboration between the makers of the algorithms and the government, civil society, and data scientists. 

Hopefully, by combining stats and computer science, recognizing the complex nature of development, making data available to the public, and measuring development not only in terms of income but in terms of freedom, a globally developed future would not be so far off.

