#### Pick at least one configuration (life expectancy vs income in the UK and Cuba over the past 80 years, for example). Try any combination(s) you like (no wrong answers here). Write what data you are displaying. Write about what you see or what surprises you, if anything. As best you can, connect what you see to ideas in previous readings from Rosling, West, Sen, another course, or from your experience. 

My configuration was the child mortality vs income in South Africa and South Korea from 1921 to 2018. 
I noticed that at first South Africa started with more wealth than South Korea.  South Korea however started with less child mortality. Then South Korea picked up a much faster pace than South Africa and exceeded them in income as well. This is connected to Hans Rosling’s idea that the reason Asia saw tremendous change was because social change preceded economic growth. The country invested in health before wealth. Social change was the bedrock on which the economic change was able to grow. Social change is better when it comes before income change. Because, while South Africa started out in wealth first, they still have a high child mortality rate and a much lower income than South Korea.  As was the case with the UAE in Hans Rosling’s TED talk, they advanced much faster because they invested in health first. Likewise, according to Amartya Sen, quality of life is as much development as increase in income and maybe even more. At the end of 2018, South Korea’s child mortality rate was 3.03 while South Africa’s was 32.9, more than ten times South Korea’s rate. As for income, South Africa ended with 12.5k, while South Korea ended with 42.9k, which is about three times better than South Africa’s. 
