#### Write what topic (or graph(s)) you are looking at. Describe what you see. Are there trends? If so, what are they? Does anything surprise you? Where possible, connect what you see to previous readings, discussions, or your experiences. 


The topic I picked is Corruption. I specifically focused on Nigeria. I chose the “Corruption perception index vs Share of people who have bribed” scatter plot. The corruption perception index in Nigeria is 27 which is very high while the share of people who have bribed is a little over 40%. These two pieces of information were not surprising in the least. There’s almost hardly anything you do in Nigeria that does not require a bribe, especially in the public sector. I recall when I went to the Nigeria Immigration Service office with my father to apply for an international passport because I needed it to take the SAT. After paying the official fee, the lady in charge also asked my dad to pay an “extra” fee if we wanted the passport to be released in two weeks. Of course, we had no choice but to pay her “her fee”. Several other Nigerians have had similar stories. There are many who have been shot by the police because they refused to give bribes. 

I also took a look at the “Perception of corruption by institutions” graph. I noticed that the graph for the world and that of Nigeria were quite similar with legislature, government officials and police ranking very high on the scale of corruption. For Nigeria, I definitely agree with the graph that police are very corrupt but I believe that the legislature and government officials are more corrupt even though theirs is not as open and obvious as the police. In Nigeria, there are two major political parties, even though we pride ourselves on having a multi-party political system. The fee to just become a member of either of these two parties is very high(ranging in millions of naira). Of course this is a deliberate action by those in power to prevent the people from engaging in the political systems of their country. Because as long as they keep the masses in poverty, people would never be able to join a major party, therefore only those with enough money to pay the fees and campaign(them), will continue to lead the country and the cycle will continue.  The economic unfreedom leads to political unfreedom leading to underdevelopment in the country.

This is definitely related to Amartya Sen’s writing on political freedom as one of the major tenets of human development in a country. According to Sen, political freedom is some of  the constituent components of development, even though it does not directly correlate to GNP or income of the country. If the people cannot engage and participate in the process, then they are bound to be stagnant. I also believe that the corruption of the government is strongly correlated to, and most likely the cause of, the corruption in other sectors of the country. 
